# Reservoir-Simulation-and-Optimization-models
Simple Reservoir Simulation Problem based on Water Balance, and different Optimization example models
###
This is a simple example model for reservoir simulation, describing the basic processes of a reservoir operation, over one year (a 12-month period). 
In particular, for each one of the 12 time-steps, the model considers: The storage level in the reservoir along with its minimum and maximum load capacities, 
the water releases for three different uses (urban, irrigation, hydropower), the water demand of each one of these uses, the amount of water spilled from the reservoir, 
and the inflows and outflows. The model prioritizes meeting the urban demand before allocating water to irrigation and hydropower uses.
Additionally, the model provides the costs and benefits of the reservoir operation, depending on the amount of water released for each use. 
More specifically, the model quantifies the benefits generated by meeting urban demand, irrigation demand, and hydropower, based on the economic value of the water, 
the crop yields and sales, and the value of the electricity produced, respectively. 
The cost associated with spills is quantified as the opportunity cost of “losing” the water spilled from potentially serving the three uses considered. 
###
Building on this simple simulation example with these three uses (urban, irrigation, hydropower), five different optimization models are formulated:
###
•	Model#1 considers the water balance – constrained operation of the reservoir, and aims to achieve the minimum shortages in the reservoir, 
i.e. the maximum water available expressed as reservoir storage.
###
•	Model#2 showcases a situation where there might not be enough water to meet all demands and also have the maximum water available, so the releases will have to be prioritized. 
Urban demand is set as the first priority; irrigation is set as the second priority (and even if there is not enough water, at a minimum the 40% of the summer months’ demand 
should be met); and finally, the remaining available water should go for hydropower.
###
•	Model#3 shows how the water releases to the three uses can be maximized (again prioritized), but now – given the limited water available – with more relaxed water storage 
constraints (i.e., less water available in the reservoir in order to meet the competitive demands). 
###
•	Model#4 slightly differentiates from the previous set ups. It is a minimization problem, getting the minimum unmet demand for each use, 
under the same prioritization constraints (prioritize covering the urban, and then if there is water available to release it for irrigation, and hydropower demands).
###
•	Model#5 differs more from the other four models, and includes economic parameters, too.
Its reservoir water balance accounts for the storage level in the reservoir and the minimum and maximum capacity, precipitation and river inflows and evaporation losses, 
the water releases for three different uses (urban, irrigation, hydropower), the water demand of each one of these uses, the amount of water spilled from the reservoir, 
and the environmental flows. 
The objective here is to maximize the total benefits derived from the reservoir over the 12-month period, under the water balance reservoir operation constraints. 
The objective function considers the benefits from the releases that will meet the three users’ demands, the cost associated with spills (as opportunity costs of the water 
that could have been used), and the cost of not meeting the minimum environmental flow requirements (estimated with a penalty rate).  

###
Reference:
###
Alamanos, A. (2023). Simple Reservoir Simulation Problem, and Different Optimization models. DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.2.12759.44969.
Available at: https://github.com/Alamanos11/Reservoir-Simulation-and-Optimization-models 


